contracts/extensions/README.md, before:

## Extensions

This package implements various extensions to the 0x protocol. Extension contracts can add various rules around how orders are settled while still getting the interoperability and security benefits of using the underlying 0x protocol contracts. Addresses of the deployed contracts can be found in this 0x [guide](https://0x.org/docs/guides/0x-cheat-sheet) or the [DEPLOYS](./DEPLOYS.json) file within this package.

## Installation

**Install**

```bash
npm install @0x/contracts-extensions --save
```

## Bug bounty

A bug bounty for the 2.0.0 contracts is ongoing! Instructions can be found [here](https://0x.org/docs/guides/bug-bounty-program).

## Contributing

We strongly recommend that the community help us make improvements and determine the future direction of the protocol. To report bugs within this package, please create an issue in this repository.

For proposals regarding the 0x protocol's smart contract architecture, message format, or additional functionality, go to the [0x Improvement Proposals (ZEIPs)](https://github.com/0xProject/ZEIPs) repository and follow the contribution guidelines provided therein.

Please read our [contribution guidelines](../../CONTRIBUTING.md) before getting started.

### Install Dependencies

If you don't have yarn workspaces enabled (Yarn < v1.0) - enable them:

```bash
yarn config set workspaces-experimental true
```

Then install dependencies

```bash
yarn install
```

### Build

To build this package and all other monorepo packages that it depends on, run the following from the monorepo root directory:

```bash
PKG=@0x/contracts-extensions yarn build
```

Or continuously rebuild on change:

```bash
PKG=@0x/contracts-extensions yarn watch
```

### Clean

```bash
yarn clean
```

### Lint

```bash
yarn lint
```

### Run Tests

```bash
yarn test
```

#### Testing options

Contracts testing options like coverage, profiling, revert traces or backing node choosing - are described [here](../TESTING.md).

Commit message:

Move LibAssetDataTransfer and MixinWeth(Utils) to contracts-extensions

contracts/extensions/README.md, after:

## Extensions

This package includes utility smart contracts that may be useful for developing on top of the core 0x Exchange. For example, `MixinWethUtils` includes functions to pay affiliate fees in ETH, wrap ETH to be used for 0x trades and protocol fees, and unwrap WETH to refund the sender.

## Installation

**Install**

```bash
npm install @0x/contracts-extensions --save
```

## Bug bounty

A bug bounty for the 3.0 contracts is ongoing! Instructions can be found [here](https://0x.org/docs/guides/bug-bounty-program).

## Contributing

We strongly recommend that the community help us make improvements and determine the future direction of the protocol. To report bugs within this package, please create an issue in this repository.

For proposals regarding the 0x protocol's smart contract architecture, message format, or additional functionality, go to the [0x Improvement Proposals (ZEIPs)](https://github.com/0xProject/ZEIPs) repository and follow the contribution guidelines provided therein.

Please read our [contribution guidelines](../../CONTRIBUTING.md) before getting started.

### Install Dependencies

If you don't have yarn workspaces enabled (Yarn < v1.0) - enable them:

```bash
yarn config set workspaces-experimental true
```

Then install dependencies

```bash
yarn install
```

### Build

To build this package and all other monorepo packages that it depends on, run the following from the monorepo root directory:

```bash
PKG=@0x/contracts-extensions yarn build
```

Or continuously rebuild on change:

```bash
PKG=@0x/contracts-extensions yarn watch
```

### Clean

```bash
yarn clean
```

### Lint

```bash
yarn lint
```

### Run Tests

```bash
yarn test
```

#### Testing options

Contracts testing options like coverage, profiling, revert traces or backing node choosing - are described [here](../TESTING.md).
